- The "half-silvered" mirror is just a crummy mirror: it only reflects half the light incident on it, refracting the other half through it.
	Such mirrors are sometimes called one way glass. Sometimes we shall call it a beam splitter.
- The speed of light in air is almost the speed of light c in a vacuum. In terms of the index of refraction n=c/v ,where v is the speed of light in the medium,
	the index of refraction of air is almost exactly 1.
- The speed of light in glass is significantly less than c. For most glasses, the index of refraction is on the order of 1.5 or so.
	Put another way, the speed of light in glass is on the order of two-thirds of the speed of light in a vacuum.
- When a light ray is incident on a surface and the material on the other side of the surface has a higher index of refraction
	(i.e. a lower speed of light than the medium that the light is traveling in), then the reflected light ray is shifted in its phase by exactly one half a wavelength.
- The index of refraction of a perfect mirror can be thought of as infinite. Thus light reflected by a mirror has its phase changed by one half a wavelength.
- When a light ray is incident on a surface and the material on the other side of the surface has a lower index of refraction,
	the reflected light ray does not have its phase changed.
- When a light ray goes from one medium into another,
	its direction changes due to refraction but no phase change occurs at the surfaces of the two mediums.
- When a light ray travels through a medium, such as a glass plate,
	its phase will be shifted by an amount that depends on the index of refraction of the medium and the path length of the light ray through the medium.
