Date: čet, 27.07.2023.  14:28:52 CEST
Dodaj PDF na onedrive - textbooks

Date: čet, 27.07.2023.  15:09:02 CEST
Nađi neke knjige koje ti fale u onedriveu od Rainera

Date: pon, 31.07.2023.  15:39:33 CEST
Cohen str. 21

Date: pon, 31.07.2023.  23:43:46 CEST
adding this recepie https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lGQu2aFsnvc

Date: čet, 10.08.2023.  12:37:43 CEST
Generating random numbers via entanglement

<<<<<<< HEAD
Date: uto,  3.10.2023.  16:22:41 CEST
In half a year we will present the field of work for the PhD Thesis and plans for the future cca 45 mins
including questions + exam 3 committee members + supervisor
should be cca 17 slides - 2 minutes per slide
submission should be 2 weeks before the presentation
supervisor needs to be present
check date with supervisor
dont make it too technical
as an audience member, ask questions dummy
dont use too many abbreviations
We will recieve a google doc
send email to Peter Križan with
a rough title of the thesis
supervisor name
confirm your super can attend in the alloted time
peter.krizan@ijs.si
you have to attend the seminars
qualifier - you can stay if youre in the audience - not compulsory
2nd year - thesis proposal of 5 pages with the references of what you will really do for your PhD
you have to submit it to the studend office well before the end of the 2nd year
proposal NEEDS to be approved at latest on septemer 25th so that you may be ELIGIBLE to enroll in your 3rd year
=======
Date: pon, 25.09.2023.  22:02:32 CEST
Sum Rules and Kramers–Kronig Relations in Nonlinear Optics in -- Encyclopedia of condensed matter

Date: pon, 25.09.2023.  22:04:37 CEST
Harmonic Generation Frequency Conversion -- Encyclopedia of condensed matter

Date: pon, 25.09.2023.  22:05:20 CEST
Interaction of Light and Matter -- Encyclopedia of Cond. Matt.
>>>>>>> ff40b25 (Updated)

