Some useful links:
Most important ones - https://www.datavizhandbook.info/
https://visualisingdata.com/2016/03/little-visualisation-design/
https://visualisingdata.com/the-little-of-visualisation-design/

Ehh - https://d3js.org/
https://observablehq.com/
https://www.dnevnik.si/1042712960

Cool - http://worrydream.com/MediaForThinkingTheUnthinkable/
https://www.amazon.com/Visual-Grammar-Design-Briefs-Christian/dp/1568985819
https://vanseodesign.com/web-design/visual-grammar/
https://letmegooglethat.com/?q=visual+vocabulary+ft.com%2Fvocabulary
https://github.com/Financial-Times/chart-doctor/blob/main/visual-vocabulary/FT4schools_RGS.pdf
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2015/05/28/upshot/you-draw-it-how-family-income-affects-childrens-college-chances.html
https://colorbrewer2.org/#type=sequential&scheme=BuGn&n=3

Making posters/presentations/articles takes a long time. It's good to really think about how to publish them.
Presentations can have little text, and a lot of pictures. Opposite for articles. Posters can be somewhere in between, but can also have no text (besides the obvious ones).
Test the font style and size to see what is best for the format and the context.

Graph has to reveal something about the data
how many variables - what kind of variables? Continuous, or discrete
area, angle, length, length aligned at one end, readable, rotation, sort

pro tip: (If you don't have infinite money and the ability to print a large poser on the spot) Put poster on 100% and step away a bit to viewer distance.
Observe font size and conclude which is the correct one.
Divide page into sections/a grid where each part is a line of text

Draw your images in vector format if you want to use them easily in poster making programs, including latex.
Have colours be far away from each other if you have few colours, having different rasters if you run out of colours, make sure the rasters are distinguishable.
