... means on slide
DQ (Designed Quantum states)-Mat summer school
- Many body sistems for corelated systems
- Low Energy - Cold Systems
-- Ion Clocs
-- Optical lattice clocks
-- Matter wave interferometry


Day 1 lecture 1
The Cold world lecture
- Bose-Einstein Condensates - Naceur Gaaloul
- (Book. B-E C in Dilute Gases)
- Magneto optical trapping - In a B field with 3 lasers
- You cool the atom -> p goes small => \lambda goes big

Correlation - Coherence(s)
- Overlap of same wf. shifted by a small amount
- Youngs double slit with atoms

Ligt v Matter
Wave eq. | Schro. eq.
...			 | ...
Stationary states
Helmholtz eq. | 
(\laplac op. + k^2(r) )E(r) = 0 | (\laplace + k^2(r)) = 0
Dispersion relation ...

Index of refraction of matter waves
(laplace + 2m/hbar^2(E-V(r,t)))\psi(r,t) = 0
...
Atomic sagnac is 10^11 times more sensitive that the optical one



B-E-C
Gross-Pitaevski eq.
N-particle Hamiltonian ...
E_k + V_ext  + V_int
E\[\xi\] = \int(dr_1...dr_N ...) = E_k\[\xi\] Kinetic part + E_k\[\xi\] potential part + E_k\[\xi\] interaction part
Hartee-Fock approx.
S-wave approx. - V_int = g_{BEC} \delta(r_i - r_j)
g_{BEC} = \frac{4\pi\hbar^2a_0}{m}
The lagrange multiplicator is just the energy or particle - chemical potential (Cost of adding one particle to the system)

Stationary Gross-Pitaevski eq looks like Schro. eq. - but it's non-linear
Quantum action

2nd lecture Denis Schlippert
The cold world

cooling, painting, tuning, and kicking

Cooling

You sacrifice atoms to cool the condensate - but you want them fast and many
\lambda = \lambda_d
COW - experiment
...
Evaporative cooling
Elastic scattering rate -
- s-wave scattering length
- ...
- Majorana spin flips?
- Atom chips
- Papers. BEC in microgravity. -- Space borne BEC for precision interferometry.
	Optical trapping:
--- Challenges
	Normal optical traps - Elastic scattering rate, confinement during evaporation, critical temp.

Painted potentials
Using Pickle trap you can basically make any type of optical trap
--- Challenges
		Painted optical traps - Elastic scattering rate, confinement during evaporation, critical temp. All are reduced significantly
		
- Why matter-wave lensing?
Better beam splitting, based on light pulses
Systematic controls
	acess to low E_k energies, shortucts of evaporation trajectories -> High flux (Potassium matter wave)

3rd lecture
Internal sensing using ato interferometry Christian Schubert
Enables absolute measuerements - > rotations, acceleration and gravitation measurements
Beam splitters
2 non-resonant light beams ... 
With a proper duration you get coherent suprposition (\pi/2) or state inversion(\pi).
Phase shift at the out put ports:
total phase shift = laser phase ( \Delta\Phi_{laser} ) + propagation phase ( \Delta\Phi_{prop} ) + separation phase (\Delta\Phi_{sep})
The last two effectively cancel in cases up to recoil terms


4th lecture (S. Ospelkaus)
Ultracold polar molecules - Many more dof than atoms, hyperfine structure, rotational structure, vibration structure, ...
Precision measurements 
- many degrees of freedom. Fine structure constant, ratio of m_e/m_p, ...
-	Collisions - scattering (laser cooling of molecules) is not optimal due to no "selection" rules when exciting an electronic state from a ground state to an excited state. When releasing a photon, the state doesn't have to come back to the previous state, or is govrened by any rule.
-	Solution to this - You choose a specific molecule which has excited vibration modes that are close enough to one another to "guarantee" the vibrational transition via rotational transitions in some way.


Day 2
Lecture 1 
Quantum sensing with atom interferometerg (Naceur)
Important for a few things like inertial navigation, civil engineering, and earth observation
Idea: Send BECs of Rb and K mixtures to space for measurements of microgravity, ...


Lecture 2
Dipolar quantum gases (Luis Santos)
What are they, dipolar BECs, Quantum droplets and supersolids, cold atoms in optical lattices, polar lattice gases
Short range isotoropic interactions - coupling constant
dipole-dipole interaction ...
Angle between two dipoles - Dipolar BEC: nonlocal Gross Gross-Pitaevski eq. - has an interaction term
Bogoliubov spectrum - at large momentums (free particle approx.) ~ parabolic dependence
                    at low momentums, the correction becomes relevant and we have a linear dependance - called the phonon states? (phonon stability)...
Trap shape geometry plays a big role due to the stability of the BEC. Some coefficient (Scattering coefficient) needs to be above 0 for the stability condition

Dipolar Roton
Local collapses due to complex dispersion relation - they generate side peaks

Quantum droplets and supersolids
Reducing the stability -> BEC droplets - Happens because of quantum fluctuations
For uniform short-range interacting BECs - \mu = gn + gn*32/(3\sqrt[pi]...
Quantum stabilization
quantum fluctuations prop to n^(3/2), mean field prop to n
This stability is nice, but when you want to put more particles in the droplets? They get streched out and form a cigar shape for lowering the energy.
This object would then be called a supersolids, a superfluid + crystalline order
Ultra cold atoms in optical lattices
Form a standing wave, place atoms (dipolar gas or whatever) in those "wells" and you simulate a 1D crystal lattice - it actually has an energy band
Ground-state phases of Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian
Created mott-insulators - not insulators like in solid state physics (filled spin states) but simply due to interactions


Lecture 3
Bragg diffraction and block oscillations in large-momentum-transfer atom interferometers
C. Overstreet at al science 375 226 (2022)
Using light pulses as a BS and mirror is how you do atomic interferometry
Bloch oscillations - used as an accelerator? thousands of \hbar k
Another optical potential (trapping) mechanism
Bloch oscillations - Based on the bloch states
Suspending atoms in cavity potential - panda et al arxiv:2210.07289 (2022)
ELGAR - LMT BS based on Bloch oscillations - canuel et al., Clas. Quant. Gravity (2020) 


Day 3
Lecture 1 
Ion trapping and cooling
Trapping
Why trap them, how, laser cooling techniques, ion coulomb crystals,...
Advantages, equilibrium pos. at E=0 - doesn't influence electronic states, strong trapping potentials -> localization of orders of nm,
deep traps => Long trapping times (up to months)
Low disturbances to elecronic energy levels
Doesn't work with electrostatic field
Does with static electric and magnetic fields
Paul trap: Oscillating and static electric fields

Doppler cooling

Coulomb crystals (1-3D crystals)
|. . . . . . . . . .|


Lecture 2
Trapped Ion Quantum Computing
Classical bits
Quantum bits (Qubits)
- Superposition principle
	Applications: Quantum chemistry, optimization, AI, cryptography

Lecture 3
Atomic clocks and timekeeping

Day 4
Lecture 1
Testing fundamental physics using matter waves
\delta \phi = 2\pi \delta z/T
Matter waves in Gravity
- Quantum clocks
- Macroscopic delocalization
- Testing the universality of free fall
	Eotvos ratio: \ni_{A,B} = \frac{g_A-g_B}{(g_A+g_B)/2}
	Quantum tests of equivalence principles
Heteordyne laser link?

Lecture 2
Optical clocks
Most accurate measurements (up to 18 digits)
Oscillating source and counting the cycles and make a clock
Frequency standards are not clocks
Characteristics of a clock: Stability and accuracy
- Statistical uncertanty (stability - variation from measured mean value)
- Systematic uncertainty (accuracy - how close you are to the actual value)
Trapping: 3D Harmonic confinement -> Lamb-Dicke regime (recoil-free spectroscopy)
Cooling provides localisation and quantum control over motional degrees of freedom
Prepare atom in spin down state
apply spectroscopy laser pulse |-> -> \alpha|-> + \beta|+>
detected via fast cycling transitions
- |-> bright or |+> dark with probs |\alpha|^2, |\beta|^2
Entangeled optical clocks - we can maybe do this in the lab?
Optical frequency comb f_n = n*f_f + f_0
